Multiple Sclerosis or MS is caused by damage to the
covering that insulates nerve cells, called the myelin sheath.
When the sheath is damaged
nerves misfire and cannot transmit signals.
This damage is caused by inflammation,
which happens when the body's own immune cells
attack the nervous system.
What causes the immune system to attack
the nerve cells is unknown.
Because nerves in any part of the brain,
spinal cord, or eyes can be damaged,
patients with MS can have symptoms such as pain,
tingling, numbness, vision and speech impairment,
and muscle weakness, loss of dexterity,
movement and balance.
Although there is no cure for MS,
there are medicines that slow down
and limit its progression.
Interferon beta works by preventing
immune cells from getting to the nervous system
to attack myelin surrounding the nerves.
Beta interferons do not cure MS
but helps slow the progression of nerve damage MS causes.
One of these drugs is glatiramer acetate.
Glatiramer acetate is chemically similar to the myelin sheath,
so it acts as a decoy.
Making immune cells attack it
instead of myelin surrounding neurons.
Glatiramer acetate doesn't cure MS,
but it helps slow its progression
and helps reduce the nerve damage caused by MS.